
::t27-banner
#title
Election Procedures
::

> Adopted at Patrol Leaders Council Aug 13, 2004 (Kyle G, SPL)
> Amendment (1): PLC Jan 22, 2005 (Jon Kirk, SPL)
> Amendment (2): Feb, 11, 2006 (Brian D, SPL)
> Amendment (3): PLC, Mar, 2, 2014 (Gunn H, SPL)

[Click here to access the Election Preference Sheet.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B1xkyyMuYqNhekZwZ0xMNjhrTUk/view?usp=sharing&resourcekey=0-KcxUNFf9TbdHagEL9dM3Qg){target="_blank"}

::alert{type="info"}
***Changes to the procedures contained herein are subject to a two-thirds majority of the Patrol Leaders Council***
::

::alert{type="info"}
No Scout may serve in any position for more than two consecutive terms
::

### Elections are held in:    
- August for a term of September 1st until February 28th (29th)
- February for a term of March 1st until August 31st

### The following positions are elected:
- Senior Patrol Leader
- Patrol Leader

### The following positions are appointed by the Senior Patrol Leader with the advice and consent of the Scoutmaster:

- Assistant Senior Patrol Leader(s) 
    - _The number of Assistant Senior Patrol Leaders will be set by the Patrol Leaders Council_
- Quartermaster (Logistics)
- Flag Corps Leader (Quartermaster, Flag Corps)
- (Must have prior experience in the Flag Corps)
- Scribe
- Order of the Arrow Representative
    - _Must be a member of O/A, Brotherhood members have priority_
- Troop Historian
- Librarian
- Chaplain Aide

***If there are multiple candidates for a position and the Senior Patrol Leader desires more 
information to make his decision, then, at his discretion, he may interview the candidate(s).***

### The following positions are appointed by the Scoutmaster:

- Junior Assistant Scoutmaster
- Den Chief [^1]
- Webelos Den Chief [^1]
[^1]: This decision is made in conjunction with the host Cub Scout Pack.

### The following positions are appointed by the Patrol Leader:

- Assistant Patrol Leader (the number of Assistant Senior Patrol Leaders will be set by the Patrol Leaders Council)

### Procedures:

- Scouts wishing to run for Senior Patrol Leader shall submit their name in writing to the designated Troop representative by the deadline stated in the pre-election e-mail.
- All votes will be cast as a secret paper ballot and tabulated by the designated Troop Representative and Scribe then verified by the Scoutmaster.  In the event the Scribe is running for an elected position, then the Senior Patrol Leader will appoint a replacement.
- Eligible voters are defined as New Scouts that have been active in the Troop for at least three months and Experienced Scouts that have been active for the previous term (6 months, Sep-Feb or Mar-Aug).  Only scouts above the minimum activity level shall be eligible to vote.
- A 51% majority must be obtained.  For example, if three boys run and no boy obtains at least 51% of the votes, then the top two boys will have a runoff to determine the winner.
- Each candidate, for an elected position, must address the assembly and provide the following information:
    - Name
    - Current Rank
    - Time in Scouting and this Troop
    - Other positions held
    - Why he desires this position and how the Troop or Patrol will benefit from his leadership.
- Each candidate will have the following time limits to provide the information above:
    - Senior Patrol Leader - 2 minutes then 1 minute for questions.
    - Patrol Leader - 1 minute then 30 seconds for questions.
- Nominated scouts must be in full dress Class-A uniform on election night.

### Qualifications for Senior Patrol Leader:
- Registered Scout with rank of Life or above
- Has served as Patrol leader for at least six months.
- Willing to serve a six month term and maintain 75% attendance through the term.
- Willing to be trained and work with the other Troop leaders
- Has attended or will attend Troop Junior Leader Training during term

### Qualifications for Assistant Senior Patrol Leader:
- Same as Senior Patrol Leader EXCEPT:
    - Must be a registered Scout with the rank of Star or above
    - Required to maintain 50% attendance at meetings and campouts.

### Qualifications for Patrol Leader:
- Registered Scout with the rank of First Class or above
- Required to maintain 50% attendance at meetings and campouts through term.
- Willing to serve a six month term
- Willing to be trained and work with the other Troop leaders
- Has attended or will attend Troop Junior Leader Training during term.

### Qualifications for remaining Troop Level positions:
_Troop Level positions are defined as those that count for rank advancement as delineated in the Boy Scout Handbook_
- Registered Scout with the rank of First Class or above
- Required to maintain 50% attendance at meetings and campouts through term.
- Willing to serve a six month term
- Willing to be trained and work with the other Troop leaders
- Has attended or will attend Troop Junior Leader Training during term.  
- Boys pursuing a Troop Level Position will fill out a preference sheet listing their choices in order from 1st through last.
    - _This sheet will be turned in the night of elections._

### Supplemental Elections:

During periods of growth, the Troop will need to create new patrols in order to accommodate expansion.  
Patrol Leaders for these new patrols will be selected by supplemental elections that adhere to the procedures 
listed above.  Typically, these will occur in or near January each year and the term will run until Aug 31st.

***These new patrol leaders will be selected from a Troop-wide election.***

### Filling of mid-term vacancies:

Should a Scout vacate an office before the end of his term, for any reason, the Senior Patrol Leader shall 
have the discretion to EITHER leave the position vacant OR appoint a Scout (who meets the qualifications for 
that position) to fill the position until the end of the term.  At that time, the position will become 
available.  The Senior Patrol Leader will make his decision based on the needs of the Troop.

### Venture Patrol(s):

_This document establishes the Venture Patrol._

#### The following are requirements for transferring to Venture Patrol:
- Must be between the ages of 14 and 18.
- Have attained the rank of Life