
::t27-banner
#title
Adult Leadership
::

::alert{type="warning"}
All volunteers are expected to complete Youth Protection training within 90 days of assuming a leadership position.
::

### Troop Committee
The Troop Committee is the troop’s board of directors and supports the troop program. The Troop Committee’s responsibilities are:

::list{type="success"}
- To ensure that quality adult leadership is recruited and trained.
- To provide adequate meeting facilities.
- To advise the Scoutmaster on policies relating to Boy Scouting and the Chartered Organization.
- To support leaders in carrying out the program.
- To oversee finances, ensure that there are adequate funds and make disbursements in line with the approved budget plan.
- To obtain, maintain and properly care for troop property.
- To ensure that the troop has an outdoor program. (minimum 10 days and nights per year)
- To serve on boards of review and courts of honor.
- To support the Scoutmaster in working with individual boys and problems that may affect the overall troop program.
- To provide for the special needs and assistance some boys may require.
- To help with the Friends of Scouting Campaign.
- To assist the Scoutmaster with handling boy behavioral problems.
::

_The Troop Committee is composed of the following voting members: Committee Chair, Secretary, Treasurer, Charter Organization Rep, Chaplain, Advancement Coordinator, Outdoor Activities Coordinator, Training Coordinator, Quartermaster, and Historian._

#### Current Committee Members

| Role | Name |
|:-|:-|
| Charter Organization Representative | Phillip Gonzalez (charterorgrep@bsatroop27.us) |
| Committee Chair | Ryan Moore (committeechair@bsatroop27.us) |
| Secretary | Allison Moore |
| Treasurer |Jyotsna Verma (treasurer@bsatroop27.us) |
| Advancement | Osiris Rosales (advancement@bsatroop27.us) |
| Membership | Astrid/Jaime Suarez (membership@bsatroop27.us) |
| Quartermaster (Uniforms) | Crystal Cherico (quartermaster@bsatroop27.us) |
| Quartermaster (Supplies) | John Skinner (quartermaster@bsatroop27.us) |
| Fundraising | James Le (fundraiser@bsatroop27.us) |
| Training | Laura Ines Suaraz |
| Outdoor/Activities | Michael Spence |
| Shooting Sports Coordinator | Richard Cherico |
| Climbing Sports Coordinator | ***OPEN*** |
| Water Sports Coordinator | ***OPEN*** |
| Summer Camp | Julie Fleischmann |
| High Adventure | Jaime Suarez / Danny Halley |
| Health Records | ***OPEN*** |
| Friends of Scouting | ***OPEN*** |
| Just Because Champio | ***OPEN*** |
| Chaplain | David Kendrick |
| Historian | Astrid Quiroga |
| Hospitality Coordinator | Richard Cherico |
| Outreach / Recruiting | ***OPEN*** |
| Eagle Scout Process Adviser | Christof Hamm |
| CPR/AED/First Aid Class Coordinator | Bill Ansley / Craig Hamilton |
| Webmaster | Craig Hamilton (webmaster@bsatroop27.us) |

### The Scoutmaster:
Is the adult responsible for working directly with the Scouts to help them create the program for the troop. The Scoutmaster trains boy leaders to run the troop by providing direction, coaching, and support.

::list{type="success"}
- Trains and guides boy leaders.
- Works with other responsible adults to bring Scouting to boys.
- Uses the methods of Scouting to achieve the aims of Scouting.
- Can be male or female, but must be at least 21 years of age.
- Is appointed by the head of the chartered organization.
::

### Assistant Scoutmasters:
 In larger troops may be directed by the Scoutmaster to assist in skills instruction and adult assistance with delivering the troop program. Duties may overlap or assist with roles in the Troop Committee. Assistant Scoutmasters not on BSA's troop organizational chart may be assigned and charged for specific duties.

::list{type="success"}
- This is the only troop adult leader position for adults age 18-20.
- Assist the Scoutmaster as directed
- Works with other responsible adults to bring Scouting to boys.
- Uses the methods of Scouting to achieve the aims of Scouting.
- Can be male or female, but must be at least 18 years of age.
- Is appointed by the Scoutmaster and approved by the Troop Committee Chair.
- Abide by the Scout Oath or Promise and the Scout Law.
- Subscribe to the precepts of the Declaration of Religious Principle
::

### Current Scout Master and Assistant Scout Masters

| Role | Name |
|:-|:-|
| Scoutmaster (scoutmaster@bsatroop27.us) | Bill Ansley |
| Assistant Scoutmaster | Danny Halley |
| Assistant Scoutmaster | Jaime Suarez |
| Assistant Scoutmaster | Chad Main |
| Assistant Scoutmaster | Derek Kirby |

### Scoutmaster History
|||
|:-|:-|
| Steve Kirk	     | Sep 1, 2002 - Feb 28, 2005 |
| Darrell Whatley    | Mar 1, 2005 - Sep 2008 |
| Chuck Tully	     | Sept 2008 - Dec 2012 |
| Craig Davidson	 | Jan 2013 - Sept 2014 |
| **Bill Ansley**  	 | **Oct 2014 - Present** |
