
::t27-banner
#title
Troop 27 Required and Optional Adult Training
::

### BSA Learn Center

1. Go to https://my.scouting.org
2. On the Opening page of my.scouting.org, click on the "My Traning"
3. Take training for Scouts BSA and Position Specific Traning

***If you have any questions talk to the troop traning coordinator or scoutmaster***

### Adult Participants required training for uniform shirt:
::list{type="info"}
- BSA Youth Protection Training
- Ethics in Ministry Training
::

### Committee Members required training for “Trained” patch:
::list{type="info"}
- All the above and,
- Scouts BSA - Troop Committee Training (my.scouting.org)
::

### Scout Master & Assistance Scout Master’s required training for uniform shirt w/“Trained” patch:
::list{type="info"}
- All from Adult Participants and...
- Scouts BSA - Scoutmaster Training my.scouting.org)
- Introduction to Outdoor Leader Skills
- Safe Swim Defense
- Safety Afloat
- Leave No Trace Camping
- Climb on Safely
::

### Additional optional training for all adults:

::list{type="info"}
- All the above and,
- Wood badge
- Powder Horn
- Wilderness First Aid
- CPR
- Life Guard Training
::

### Other supplemental training
Troop 27 encourages at least one (1) adult per family to become actively involved and participate in the development of the scouts in our troop.  A “best effort” attempt to complete required adult “participant” training within 3 months of becoming active in troop activities is expected.  ASM and SM’s are expected to complete all required training within 6 months of position assignments.  To get credit for taking a course, students must provide proof of completed training to the Troop 27 Advancement Chairperson.  Following is description of each course.

#### YPT (Required):
BSA Youth Protection Training is required for all adults participating in the scout program in any capacity.  It covers the BSA's Youth Protection policies, kinds of abuse, signs of abuse, how to respond to disclosure of abuse, and proper reporting procedures. It does so by taking you through situations that require choices and produce consequences. Successful completion of this course requires an 80 percent or higher score.

- Where: online at https://scouting.org/Training/Adult.aspx
- When: anytime

#### Ethics in Ministry Training (EIM)
The “Protecting God’s Children” workshop is required by the Catholic Diocese of Austin’s Ethics and Integrity in Ministry policies ( https://www.austindiocese.org/department_home.php?id=9 ) for any adults working with youth.  As part of EIM, you must also complete an application so that a criminal record check can be done.  Please use the “eAppsDB” application also found on the Diocese of Austin website ( https://www.eappsdb.com/login.asp?orgz_key=4 ) to register.

- Where:  varies, see text
- When:  varies, see text

#### Introduction to Outdoor Leadership Skills (IOLS)

IOLS is a hands-on training program to give adult leaders the practical outdoor skills they need to lead Scouts in the outdoors.  Imagine having hands-on knowledge about setting up a campsite, pitching a tent, hiking, outdoor cooking – all the skills necessary to see the outdoor program of the Boys Scouts of America come to life.  See the districts’ website for details on where and when this training is offered.  You can find more info on the next class at your district website.

- Where:  varies, see text
- When:  varies, see text

#### Safe Swim Defense
Safe Swim Defence is a basic safety course to give leaders guidance for activities in and around water activities.  Before a BSA group may engage in swimming activities of any kind, a minimum of one adult leader must complete Safe Swim Defense training, have a commitment card (No. 34243) with them, and agree to use the eight defenses in this plan.

- Where:  online at https://scouting.org/Training/Adult.aspx
- When:  anytime

#### Safety Afloat
Safety Afloat has been developed to promote boating and boating safety and to set standards for safe unit activity afloat. Before a BSA group may engage in an excursion, expedition, or trip on the water (canoe, raft, sailboat, motorboat, rowboat, tube, or other craft), adult leaders for such activity must complete Safety Afloat Training, have a commitment card with them, and be dedicated to full compliance with all nine points of Safety Afloat.

- Where:  online at https://scouting.org/Training/Adult.aspx
- When:  anytime

#### Leave No Trace
Leave No Trace training is a nationally recognized outdoor skills and ethics education program designed to educate participants in the skills of hiking and camping with minimum impact to the environment.  Consult the Capital Area Council scout office for opportunities for training.

- Where:  varies, see text
- When:  varies, see text

#### Climb On Safely
Climb on Safely is the Boy Scouts of America's recommended procedure for organizing BSA climbing/rappelling activities at a natural site or a specifically designed facility such as a climbing wall or tower.  Training is typically by arrangement or through various scouting venues, including by special arrangement with Troop 27 climbing instructors.

- Where:  online at https://scouting.org/Training/Adult.aspx
- When:  varies, see text

#### Wilderness First Aid
Wilderness First Aid is an emergency first aid basics with special emphasis on providing care in wilderness settings where first responders may be hours or days away.  Students are trained using lecture and practice skills, including realistic real-time simulation of emergency situations.  Instructor situational observation and a final exam are used to determine pass/fail for this course.  Consult the Capital Area Council website for dates for the Spring and Fall sessions.

- Where: varies, Lost Pines Scout Reservation(LSPR)
- When: varies

### Supplemental Training Modules
Supplemental training modules are designed to provide orientation beyond the basic training offered in New Leader Essentials and leader-specific training. Each module is a unit of training that can be used as an outline for a group, for personal coaching, or for self-study. Most of the outlines should require about an hour to complete. Consider each unit of study to be an introduction to the subject. Scouters are welcome to download subjects that are of interest for personal or unit use. There are no training credits associated with the completion of these units of study. Additional training units are being developed.

### PowerPoint Presentations
The following items are available in Microsoft PowerPoint (PPT) format:

[Supporting Scouts With ADHD](https://filestore.scouting.org/filestore/ppt/ADHDTips.ppt)

[National Advanced Youth Leadership Experience (NAYLE)](https://www.scouting.org/programs/scouts-bsa/troop-resources/nayle/)
