
::t27-banner
#title
Attendance Requirements
::

_Scout participation is a requirement for rank advancement. The requirements is 
that a scout has to be active 50% of the time in the last 6 months. 
This is a rolling 6 months so technically if they have been 100% active in the
previous 3 months prior to rank advancement then they have met the requirements._

## Requirements

### Campout attendance

In order to meet the minimum requirements to be considered having attended a troop campout for the
purposes of tracking attendance, one must do one of the following:
::list{type="success"}
- Spend the night Friday (or other first night of the campout), engage in the troop agenda for 
scouting activities until at least noon on Saturday (or other next day), and check out as appropriate.
- Arrive and check in as appropriate by 6:00 PM on Saturday (or other day of primary activities),
engage in the troop agenda for scouting activities, spend the night Saturday night (or other night 
at the conclusion of primary activities), and engage in the troop agenda the following day until troop dismissal.
- If one arrives late or leaves early, they should check in/out with the SPL, their PL, and the SM.
::

### Meeting attendance
In order to meet the minimum requirements to be considered having attended a troop meeting for the
purposes of tracking attendance, one must do one of the following:
::list{type="success"}
- Be present when attendance is taken at the beginning of the meeting, engage in the troop agenda for 
scouting activities, and check out as appropriate after the midpoint of the meeting.
- Check in as appropriate before the midpoint of the meeting, engage in the troop agenda for 
scouting activities, and be present at dismissal.
- If one arrives late or leaves early, they should check in/out with the SPL, their PL, and the SM.
::